Nicholas Nguyen
CSCI-319

When it comes to game design, I think things can be split into 2 categories: the base and the content. The base is the mechanics that make up
the core of the game. Things like Mario moving and jumping or Link moving and attacking with his sword. Content is all the fluff built
around the content that adds to the experience. These include things like good levels and fun upgrades. In Getting Over It, both the base
and the content are built in such a way to frustrate the player and ultimately provide a satisfying experience in the end.

On one hand, the base of the game is built intentionally clunky and hard to master. I've watched people play getting over it before, but I
didn't quite understand how unintuitive the controls were until I tried it. The game subverts what you expect your mouse to do. While I expect
my mouse to respond to when I move it, it just doesn't and it's brilliant. Just that little bit of delay adds frustration to every interaction
in the game, until I get used to it of course. Another aspect of the game's base that frustrates is the slipperiness of the player. One
mistake and it's all over, back to the start. It makes any progress extremely tentative.

Another aspect of the game's frustration comes from the content of the level design. The most notable, and comical in my opinion, piece of 
content is the voice that constantly talks at you as you fall. Something about the emotionless drone of inspirational quotes that really
manages to get under you skin. But on the flip side, hearing the voice of the game designer as I climbed up and he told his story about
the other game was really inspiring to me at least. I really wanted to hear the next stage in the story and that was honestly my main
motivation to climb. Also the level design also serves to challenge you. It isn't all just trees to (frustratingly) climb over, it's also 
overhangs to shimmy on and these weird light corridors that you have to climb by swinging the hammer back and forth. You can never rest on 
your laurals in the game; it always has something new to throw at you and frustrate you with.

Despite all my talk about how frustrating the game is, I think it adds to the experience and fun of the game. Am I saying this because one
of my favorite video game series is Dark Souls? I plead the fifth. But Getting Over It with Bennett Foddy is a frustrating experience
that I don't really want to experience again. But the allure of it still lingers in my head. And I'll probably keep playing it until I
get frustrated and quit again.
